.TH AESCRYPT 1  "January 30, 2022" "AES Crypt Tools" "User Commands"

.SH NAME

.B aescrypt
\- AES Crypt encrypts and decrypts files using the Advanced Encryption Standard
(AES).

.SH SYNOPSIS

.SY
.B aescrypt
{\ \-e\ |\ \-d\ }
[\ {\ \-p\ <password>\ |\ \-k\ <keyfile>\ }\ ]
[\ \-o\ <output\ filename>\ ]\ [\ \fI<file>\ ...\fR\ ]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B aescrypt
is an advanced file encryption utility that provides a means to encrypt files
using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm.

.B aescrypt
encrypts files with a supplied password and creates an encrypted version of the
file in the specified output file by the '\-o' switch.  If no output file is
specified, then the file will be written to a file of the same name with the
extention '.aes' appended.

If the output file is not specified, the default output file will be the
original input filename with ".aes" appended to the end.

One may encrypt or decrypt multiple files by specifying each of the filenames
as part of the command-line options.  The special filename "\-" is allowed
and indicated standard input.

.SH OPTIONS

.B \-d
.RS
Decrypt the file.
.RE

.B \-e
.RS
Encrypt the file.
.RE

.B \-p <password>
.RS
Password to use to encrypt or decrypt the specified file.  If not provided via
this option and the "\-k" flag is not provided, the user will be prompted
for the password.
.RE

.B \-k\ <keyfile>
.RS
A keyfile to use to encrypt or decrypt files, as opposed to using a password.
.RE

.B \-o <output\ filename>
.RS
The name of the output file to produce, which may be "\-" to indicate standard
out.  If not specified, the output filename will be the name of the input
file with ".aes" appended.  If the input file is standard input, the output
will be assumed to be standard output if "\-o" is not specified.
.RE

.SH AUTHOR

AES Crypt was written by Paul E. Jones <paulej@packetizer.com>.  Additionally,
several other people have contributed to the Linux source code, notably
Glenn Washburn <crass@berlios.de> and Mauro Gilardi <galvao.m@gmail.com>.

.SH SEE ALSO

For more complete documentation or to download the most recent version of the
software, visit https://www.aescrypt.com/.

.SH COPYRIGHT

This software is licensed as "freeware."  Permission to distribute this
software in source and binary forms is hereby granted without a fee.  THIS
SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE AUTHOR SHALL NOT BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY
DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EITHER DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE.

